When a transaction triggers the execution of a smart contract, it must include an amount of gas that sets the upper limit of what can be consumed running the smart contract. The EVM will terminate execution if the amount of gas consumed by computation exceeds the gas available in the transaction. 

The next question is, 'how does one get gas to pay for computation on the Ethereum world computer?' You won’t find gas on any exchanges. It can only be purchased as part of a transaction, and can only be bought with ether. Ether needs to be sent along with a transaction and it needs to be explicitly earmarked for the purchase of gas, along with an acceptable gas price. Just like at the pump, the price of gas is not fixed. Gas is purchased for the transaction, the computation is executed, and any unused gas is refunded back to the sender of the transaction.

A DApp is, at the very least, a smart contract and a web user interface. More broadly, a DApp is a web application that is built on top of open, decentralized, peer-to-peer infrastructure services.

A DApp is composed of at least:

Smart contracts on a blockchain

A web frontend user interface

In addition, many DApps include other decentralized components, such as:

A decentralized (P2P) storage protocol and platform

A decentralized (P2P) messaging protocol and platform

The web3.js library also includes an interface to a P2P storage network called Swarm and a P2P messaging service called Whisper. With these three components included in a JavaScript library running in your web browser, developers have a full application development suite that allows them to build web3 DApps.

One of the big challenges facing developers in Ethereum is the inherent contradiction between deploying code to an immutable system and a development platform that is still evolving. You can’t simply "upgrade" your smart contracts. You must be prepared to deploy new ones, migrate users, apps, and funds, and start over.

One ether is 1 quintillion wei (1 * 1018 or 1,000,000,000,000,000,000).

We will use the term "wallet" to mean a software application that helps you manage your Ethereum account.

one crucial aspect is that each user of Ethereum can—and should—control their own private keysWe sometimes call the combination of access to funds and smart contracts an "account" or "wallet." 
